## 1.2 How Your Computer Manages Software

Almost every large Linux distribution, including Linux Mint, uses something called a **package manager**. A package manager is a piece of software largely integral to the operating system that manages software where each piece of software is separated into a pacakge, and when one piece of software needs another piece of software, for example, a video editor needs a library to process videos, that video editor with **depend** on the video processing library.

You'll need to familiarize yourself with this concept since it is very different from other operating systems like Windows or macOS, since they have each software as a downloadable piece that is copied somewhere with an installer.

When you update software in Linux Mint, the package manager, a program known as apt, installs software by downloading it from a website that hosts trusted software selected by the Linux distribution developers. The tool that does this is known as `apt`.

Below `apt`, there is another piece of software called `dpkg`, that `apt` uses in order to install the packages it downloads. You will use `dpkg`, not `apt`, when downloading your own software like Skype. Software like Skype provides an individual .deb file that can be used with utilities on Linux Mint in order to install it onto your system. When you download a .deb file from the internet, it is an individual package.

There are many different types of package formats for many different Linux distributions. If prompted, download the .deb file for Debian-based distributions.